# November 2025 - Week 1
# Messages: 4

[2025-11-01 14:13] cat enjoyer: anyone know anything about recent vac changes? apparently many of the steamservice vac routines are not being called at all

[2025-11-01 14:16] cat enjoyer: I tested both on windows and linux, checking /proc/$(pidof -s steam)/task/*/comm there is no ClientModuleMan(ager, comm buffer is 16 bytes long) either

[2025-11-01 14:20] vanessa: [replying to Matti: "I have no official source for this but I'm pretty ..."]
wanted to confirm this and seems we're right:

>  Transactions generated by all root-complex integrated devices must be uniquely identifiable through 
> its source-id (PCI requester-id). This enables any root-complex integrated endpoint device (PCI or PCI 
> Express) to be independently assigned to a domain.
> 

>  The platform hardware checks for violations and explicitly blocks them. For PCI-Express memory 
> requests, this may be implemented by hardware that checks for the condition at the PCI-Express 
> receivers and handles violations as PCI-Express errors. DMA requests from other devices (such as 
> Root-Complex integrated devices) that violate the rule (and hence are blocked by hardware) may 
> be handled in platform-specific ways. In this model, the remapping hardware units never receive 
> DMA requests that cross page boundaries.
> 

https://kib.kiev.ua/x86docs/Intel/VT-d/D51397-008.pdf#:~:text=3,Processor%20graphics%20device%20may

[2025-11-02 01:58] Gold: [replying to cat enjoyer: "anyone know anything about recent vac changes? app..."]
they're indeed not called anymore, probably completely disabled, they didn't even update VAC in the last 2 years anyway